README.md, before:

# koel [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/phanan/koel.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/phanan/koel) ![Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/phanan/koel/badges/quality-score.png?b=master) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/phanan/koel/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/phanan/koel) [![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/koel/backers/badge.svg)](#backers) [![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors)

![Showcase](http://koel.phanan.net/dist/img/showcase.png?2)

## Intro

**Koel** (also stylized as **koel**, with a lowercase k) is a simple web-based personal audio streaming service written in [Vue](http://vuejs.org/) on the client side and [Laravel](http://laravel.com/) on the server side. Targeting web developers, Koel embraces some of the more modern web technologies – flexbox, audio, and drag-and-drop API to name a few – to do its job.

## Install and Upgrade Guide

For system requirements, installation/upgrade guides, troubleshooting etc., head over to the [Official Documentation](http://koel.phanan.net/docs).

## Contribute

All contributions, big or small, are warmheartedly welcome! Please note, however, that if you want to work on a new feature, first open an issue to make sure it's something desired – doing this will greatly save time for all of us.

## Backers

Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/koel#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/29/avatar.svg"></a>

## Sponsors

Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [[Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/koel#sponsor)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/29/avatar.svg"></a>

Commit message:

Make it easier to contribute to koel by having an online IDE (#975)
* Added Gitpod Config

* Start with music in the playlist

README.md, after:

# koel [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/phanan/koel.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/phanan/koel) ![Code Quality](https://scrutinizer-ci.com/g/phanan/koel/badges/quality-score.png?b=master) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/phanan/koel/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/phanan/koel) [![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/koel/backers/badge.svg)](#backers) [![OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors)

![Showcase](http://koel.phanan.net/dist/img/showcase.png?2)

## Intro

**Koel** (also stylized as **koel**, with a lowercase k) is a simple web-based personal audio streaming service written in [Vue](http://vuejs.org/) on the client side and [Laravel](http://laravel.com/) on the server side. Targeting web developers, Koel embraces some of the more modern web technologies – flexbox, audio, and drag-and-drop API to name a few – to do its job.

## Install and Upgrade Guide

For system requirements, installation/upgrade guides, troubleshooting etc., head over to the [Official Documentation](http://koel.phanan.net/docs).

## Contribute

All contributions, big or small, are warmheartedly welcome! Please note, however, that if you want to work on a new feature, first open an issue to make sure it's something desired – doing this will greatly save time for all of us.

A quick and easy way to start hacking on koel is to open and run this repo in Gitpod, an online IDE with full Laravel support.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/phanan/koel)

## Backers

Support us with a monthly donation and help us continue our activities. [[Become a backer](https://opencollective.com/koel#backer)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/backer/29/avatar.svg"></a>

## Sponsors

Become a sponsor and get your logo on our README on Github with a link to your site. [[Become a sponsor](https://opencollective.com/koel#sponsor)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/9/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/10/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/10/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/11/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/11/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/12/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/12/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/13/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/13/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/14/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/14/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/15/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/15/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/16/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/16/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/17/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/17/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/18/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/18/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/19/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/19/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/20/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/20/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/21/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/21/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/22/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/22/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/23/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/23/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/24/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/24/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/25/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/25/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/26/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/26/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/27/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/27/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/28/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/28/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/29/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/koel/sponsor/29/avatar.svg"></a>
