docs/usage/streaming.md, before:

# Streaming Music

## Streaming Methods

Koel supports three streaming methods which can be configured via the `STREAMING_METHOD` setting in `.env` file:

* `php`: Uses native PHP file reading. This is the default method.
* `x-accel-redirect`: Only applicable if your webserver is nginx. Uses nginx's [X-Accel](https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/start/topics/examples/x-accel/) module, designed for serving larger contents directly to the end user. Refer to [`nginx.conf.example`](https://github.com/koel/koel/blob/master/nginx.conf.example) for a sample nginx configuration file.
* `x-sendfile`: Only applicable if your webserver is Apache (with or without a proxy server like nginx). Uses Apache's [mod_xsendfile](https://tn123.org/mod_xsendfile/) module. You'll need to install and configure the module manually. A sample configuration is as following:
    ```apache
    LoadModule xsendfile_module   libexec/apache2/mod_xsendfile.so

    # These configuration can be put in the VirtualHost directive as well
    <IfModule mod_xsendfile.c>
      XSendFile on
      XSendFilePath /mnt/media
    </IfModule>
    ```
  Note that although its home page denotes "Apache2/Apache2.2," the module itself is known to work with later versions of Apache as well.

:::tip Tip
If you're using [Koel mobile app](https://koel.dev/#mobile) and can't play the songs, try switching the streaming method to `x-accel-redirect` or `x-sendfile` instead of `php`.
:::

:::warning Notice
Koel always uses the native PHP method if you're transcoding or streaming from a cloud storage.
:::

## Transcoding FLAC

Koel supports transcoding FLAC to mp3 on the fly when streaming music. This behavior can be controlled via a `TRANSCODE_FLAC` setting in `.env` file:

* `false`: Disable FLAC transcoding. Koel will stream FLAC files as-is, producing the lossless audio quality. This is the default behavior.
* `true`: Enable FLAC transcoding. Koel will transcode FLAC to mp3 on the fly. You'll need to have [FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) installed on your server and set its executable path via the `FFMPEG_PATH` setting in the `.env` file. The transcoding quality can also be controlled via `OUTPUT_BIT_RATE` (defaults to `128`).

Commit message:

feat: allow bitrate options for mobile transcoding

docs/usage/streaming.md, after:

# Streaming Music

## Streaming Methods

Koel supports three streaming methods which can be configured via the `STREAMING_METHOD` setting in `.env` file:

* `php`: Uses native PHP file reading. This is the default method.
* `x-accel-redirect`: Only applicable if your webserver is nginx. Uses nginx's [X-Accel](https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/start/topics/examples/x-accel/) module, designed for serving larger contents directly to the end user. Refer to [`nginx.conf.example`](https://github.com/koel/koel/blob/master/nginx.conf.example) for a sample nginx configuration file.
* `x-sendfile`: Only applicable if your webserver is Apache (with or without a proxy server like nginx). Uses Apache's [mod_xsendfile](https://tn123.org/mod_xsendfile/) module. You'll need to install and configure the module manually. A sample configuration is as following:
    ```apache
    LoadModule xsendfile_module   libexec/apache2/mod_xsendfile.so

    # These configuration can be put in the VirtualHost directive as well
    <IfModule mod_xsendfile.c>
      XSendFile on
      XSendFilePath /mnt/media
    </IfModule>
    ```
  Note that although its home page denotes "Apache2/Apache2.2," the module itself is known to work with later versions of Apache as well.

:::tip Tip
If you're using [Koel mobile app](https://koel.dev/#mobile) and can't play the songs, try switching the streaming method to `x-accel-redirect` or `x-sendfile` instead of `php`.
:::

:::warning Notice
Koel always uses the native PHP method if you're transcoding or streaming from a cloud storage.
:::

## FLAC Transcoding

By default, Koel streams FLAC files as-is, which means the lossless audio quality is preserved.
However, you can opt to have FLAC transcoded to mp3 to, for example, reduce bandwidth or support older devices. This behavior can be controlled via the `TRANSCODE_FLAC` setting in `.env` file:

* `false`: Disable transcoding and stream FLAC files as-is, producing the lossless audio quality. This is the default behavior.
* `true`: Transcode FLAC to mp3 before streaming. You'll need to have [FFmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/) installed on your server and set its executable path via the `FFMPEG_PATH` setting in the `.env` file. The transcoding quality can also be controlled via `OUTPUT_BIT_RATE` (defaults to `128`).

When transcoding is enabled, Koel caches the transcoded files to improve performance. If for any reason you want to clear the cache, run `php artisan cache:clear`.

## Transcoding on Mobile

On a mobile device where data usage is a concern, you might want to transcode all songs to a lower bitrate to save bandwidth.
This can be done via the [Preferences screen](./profile-preferences#preferences) and requires the same FFmpeg setup as FLAC transcoding.
